Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain a drama, horror, mystery,
and science fiction film called "The Room."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A young couple, Matt and Kate move into
their new home in upstate New York. Both
of them enjoy the early times of being a
young married couple as they start anew.
Their new house requires renovations and repairs
here and there, so they start to work around it.
Upon organizing the kitchen, Kate sees a dead bird
inside a cabinet and goes outside to bury it. She
gets distracted by Matt, who talks to her from the
window and looks back to see the bird disappear.
While throwing away stuff
that came with the house,
Matt notices something weird in the wall,
so he tears the wallpaper to see it better.
In there, he uncovers a large door with a weird
keyhole. In an attempt to unlock the door,
he rummages through the pile of old stuff
and finds the key. Matt inserts it into the
keyhole and immediately calls Kate to tell
her about it. They open the door together,
and the lights in the hallway suddenly
flicker. Matt calls the power company to
report the problem, and Kate senses something
weird about The Room, so she follows him.
The following day, an operator from
the power company arrives to inspect
the cause of the surges. To his surprise,
the wires in the basement are ancient and
intertwined in such a weird-looking way. When
Matt asks if he can do anything about it,
the operator says that he has never seen
anything like it. Before the operator leaves,
he tells Matt about the home's previous
owners who got murdered inside the house.
Upon hearing the shocking news, he
immediately does his research about it.
In an old news article, Matt learns that the
couple who died are named Paul and Madeline
Shaeffer. Moreover, the identity of the suspect
remains unknown and is aliased as "John Doe."
Matt, being an artist, tries to draw John Doe's
face on his sketchpad and takes a break from
it inside the mysterious Room. He finishes a
bottle of liquor and wishes that he could have
another bottle to himself. The lamp flickers,
and to his surprise, another bottle appears.
Matt examines the bottle and realizes
that The Room can grant wishes.
Kate wakes up to the sound of flickering lights
in the living room and goes upstairs to check on
Matt. Inside The Room, she finds him far beyond
excited as space is filled with new stuff.
Matt happily shows Kate an authentic Van Gogh
painting and explains that The Room can grant
any material wish. Thinking that it is one of
Matt's pranks, Kate laughs it off but realizes
that her husband is serious. She tests his
theory and asks for a thousand dollars. Matt
rummages around the whole Room and finally picks
up the money Kate wished for. Still skeptical,
she asks for a million dollars and
just like that, they are millionaires.
However, Kate finds it scary and walks out. Matt
persuades her that they should have fun with it.
The couple spends the whole day
wishing their life away. Clothes,
champagne, art, and money are just one wish
within their reach. Matt and Kate's happiness
are beyond compare as they drown themselves
in expensive things. At the end of the night,
Kate questions how The Room manages to grant their
wishes, but Matt tells her not to worry about it.
For the following days, their fun
and lavishness know no bounds.
Every time they make a wish, lights flicker,
and so does the power source in the basement.
They celebrate their overnight wealth by partying
together inside The Room with drinks and gifts.
However, the fun and action do not last long. Kate
wakes up the following morning feeling empty as
the material things fail to fill a void inside
her. Matt gets concerned about it and surprises
her with a crib, hinting that they should try
to have a baby. Contrary to his expectations,
Kate gets upset about the surprise as she already
had two miscarriages and storms out of the house.
Later, Kate returns inside and spontaneously
wishes for a child inside the mysterious Room.
As Matt learns about it, he gets mad that she
did not consult him before wishing for a baby.
Both get into a heated argument, Kate claiming
that she did it as a "shortcut" to motherhood.
Without the possibility of a miscarriage
and the pain of childbirth, Kate explains
that they could be happy that way. Matt
is utterly against the idea and urges
Kate to bring the baby back to The Room
to wish for the child's disappearance.
At that moment, the couple enters The Room,
but Kate tearfully refuses to give up the baby.
Instead, she hands the baby over to Matt,
but he, could not carry out the deed as well.
He could not get himself to wish for the baby
to disappear and returns it to his wife before
walking away. Eventually, both of them decide to
keep the baby, and they become parents overnight.
While on his desk, Matt spots his unfinished
drawing of John Doe and does more research about
the incident that happened decades ago. He learns
that the suspected murderer is still alive in a
psychiatric hospital. In another archived news
article, John Doe says that The Room made him do
it. Not long after, Matt drives to the psychiatric
institution to meet with John in person and ask
about The Room. At his arrival, a nurse warns
Matt that no one has visited John in 45 years,
except for news reporters, so
Matt enlists himself as one.
Finally, Matt comes face-to-face with a much older
John and starts questioning him about the house,
especially the mysterious room. Displaying a
sinister smile on his face, John tells Matt
that he has been waiting for this moment for a
long time. When Matt asks why John killed the
Shaeffers, John tells him that was the only way.
John brushes off the topic and instructs Matt to
leave the house instead. He warns the young man to
do it as soon as possible before it is too late.
Before leaving, John says: "the only
thing more dangerous than a person
who can't get what they want is the
person who gets whatever they want."
Matt stops by a gas station on the way home,
but to his surprise, his cash turns into dust.
Because of this, he rushes home and throws
away the remaining money in The Room to see
if it will turn out the same. Then, he tries
to bring the Van Gogh painting by the door,
confirming his theory that they cannot bring the
things outside, or else it will turn into dust.
In a fit of rage, Matt breaks the walls to know
the mystery behind The Room, but to no avail.
He only sees the intertwined sets of
wires that are too difficult to track.
Matt then tears a wallpaper and discovers a map
of the house with guides of the connected wires.
Meanwhile, Kate brings the baby outside,
but Matt stops her, warning that it isn't
safe. He doesn’t tell his wife the real reason
why they shouldn’t bring the child outside.
Not long after, the baby screams uncontrollably,
as if it is in pain. While hearing it,
Matt has second thoughts about helping Kate and
the baby, but he eventually comes to their rescue.
Outdoors, the baby mysteriously ages to a young
child in a matter of seconds. Once they reenter
the house, the couple could not believe what is
in front of them while looking at the grown boy.
Later that day, Matt reveals that The Room
can grant anything that their heart desires,
but under the condition that they cannot bring it
outside. If they do, the thing ages and turns into
dust. Kate replies that a baby is not a thing
and is unaccepting that she cannot bring their
son outside. She becomes fond of the boy who
she claims to be her son and names him, Shane.
For the next few days, Kate home schools Shane and
explains that he cannot leave home because of the
dangerous germs outside. One day, Shane becomes
impatient while Kate teaches him how to read,
causing him to throw a tantrum. His whole
life, Shane has never experienced how it
is to be outside; all he has ever known is
the walls of the home he can never leave.
Later, Kate receives a package outside and
locks the door whenever she goes in and out.
She gives the package to Matt, who ordered it,
and unboxes a brand new gun. Unfortunately,
Kate leaves the front door unlocked and completely
forgets about it. While she is busy playing the
piano, Shane sneakily makes his way to the front
door and opens it unnoticed. He sticks his hand
outside and feels the fresh breeze, deeply curious
about the outdoors. Suddenly, Kate notices it and
rushes to her son angrily. She embraces Shane,
relieved that he is safe and unharmed. To prevent
Shane from sneaking out, the couple decides
to block every window with planks of wood.
That night, Kate wakes up to Shane beside
her bed, asking if he could sleep beside her.
The boy tells his mother that he wants to be
with her forever, making Kate hold him closer.
However, her words fail to bring ease to
Shane's mind as he still looks worried.
Matt spends the next few days practicing how
to shoot with his newly purchased weapon.
He then comes back home and sees Shane playing
with a snow globe inside his art studio.
Strictly, he orders Shane to leave immediately,
causing the boy to drop his snow globe.
Until now, Matt has not accepted Shane
as his son and acts coldly toward him.
Not long after, Kate comes in and argues about
Matt not acting fatherly toward their son.
At nightfall, Shane walks around the house and
sees a map that leads to the basement. He sees
the big power source with intertwined wires and
eventually ends up in The Room. Throughout the
night, lights flicker around the house, but Matt
and Kate do not notice it at all. When Matt wakes
up, he sees a new snow globe beside him and the
broken one from a distance. He immediately wakes
his wife up upon noticing the flickering lights,
already having an idea of what’s causing it.
The couple enters The Room, and to their
surprise, Shane made an outdoor area inside it.
The Room that once had four corners is now a vast
forest where Shane enjoys building a snowman.
Kate is completely mesmerized by the world her son
has created for himself and joins in with his fun.
On the other hand, Matt is enraged and grabs
Shane by the arm to bring him back inside.
The incident causes the couple to argue whether
or not to permit Shane to enter The Room and play.
Matt insists that it is dangerous, but Kate thinks
otherwise. While they argue, the phone rings and
Shane answers it, despite not being allowed
to pick up the phone or talk to anyone else.
Matt grabs the phone from the boy, and to
his surprise, John calls and realizes that
the couple wished for a boy. From the kitchen,
Kate listens to their conversation with another
phone and overhears their whole conversation. John
explains that it entails the ultimate sacrifice of
life for Shane to go freely outside the house. If
Kate dies, Shane can go out and age, like everyone
else. Over the phone, John shockingly reveals that
he was also a child granted by The Room. John's
mother killed his father before forcing him, as a
young man, to kill her so that he could be free.
Then, he tells Matt that he has two options: kill
Shane and save Kate, or kill Kate and save Shane.
After hearing the conversation, Kate leaves
home, causing Matt to worry. She attempts to
crash the car, but she could not bring herself
to do so. Being alone with Shane in the house,
Matt acts frantically and even
trashes his studio. Not long after,
he prepares dinner for Shane, who sits
across from him in the dining room.
The curious boy keeps asking him questions, and
with his growing annoyance, Matt loses his cool.
Shane is told that he is not a real boy, and he
does not have parents. Still, in a fit of rage,
Matt drags Shane by the front door, but
the boy runs back upstairs out of fear.
In Shane's Room, Matt realizes that he hurt
him and sincerely apologizes for his actions.
The boy asks if Matt could read to him, and they
end up sleeping beside each other. As Kate arrives
home, she is still confused by her emotions,
but the sight of Matt and Shane lying beside
each other brings her peace. Later that night, the
couple shares an intimate moment as Shane watches.
The boy waits for his parents to fall asleep and
steals the key to the front door once they do.
The following day, Matt and Kate discover that
Shane went outside after seeing the front door
open. In another area of the house, they are
stunned to see Shane age overnight though he still
has the mind of a boy. He now appears to be a
grown man and even holds his parents at gunpoint.
Once Kate gets him to calm down, Matt throws
himself at Shane and the two get into a fight.
Being thrown onto the floor because of the
brawl, Kate slowly loses her consciousness.
Moments later, Kate wakes up to Matt, informing
her that Shane died after being accidentally shot.
Devastated, Kate goes out and breaks into
tears, unable to cope with Shane's death.
Matt comforts and carries her back into
the house, where she continues to grieve.
Back in the room where the fight happened, the
real Matt gains consciousness and looks for his
wife around the house. Still, in a state of panic,
he notices flickering lights and gets under the
idea that Kate and Shane, who has shape-shifted
into Matt, are inside. All the while, Kate is
still clueless about Shane being the one in front
of her instead of Matt. However, she realizes the
truth of the person's identity in front of her
after Shane makes one of his habits of eating ice.
Matt tries to make his way inside The Room
with all his will by breaking the wall and
passing through all the wires. He finally reaches
The Room, which is now a forest full of woods.
It reveals that Shane used The Room to enlarge the
outdoor area and duplicate the house inside it.
He shape-shifted into Matt to
kidnap Kate to the cloned home
and take advantage of her in a sensual way.
Determined to claim his wife back, Matt runs
through the woods and finally arrives at the
cloned home. He breaks in just as Shane
forces himself on Kate in his bedroom.
After hearing Matt break-in, Shane
gets up to prepare for another fight.
This allows Kate to get up and leave, but she
sees two versions of Matt across the hallway.
Her dilemma at the moment is beyond compare as the
two have an uncanny resemblance. One of them grabs
her by the hand, but she pushes him after calling
out Shane's name, which grabs his attention.
Shane loses his consciousness after falling
down the stairs and transforms into his real
appearance. Meanwhile, Matt and Kate cannot
get out of the Room because Shane keeps
wishing for them to be trapped inside. After
countless tries of arriving at the same place,
Matt stops and thinks of a way out. The couple
comes face to face with Shane by the door,
who advances at Matt and stabs him to death.
Afterward, Shane comforts Kate but realizes that
they are just clones and replications of the real
ones. Matt and Kate quickly run to The Room's exit
through the woods while being chased by Shane,
who grows more aggressive after being tricked.
At the real home, Shane attacks Matt but is pulled
with him outside. Realizing that it will cost
his life, Shane runs back to the door, but Kate
immediately closes it before he could get inside.
Shane screams, "mommy!" while Kate looks at
him as he ages into an elderly man. He walks
slowly as his body decays and eventually
turns into dust. Despite his faults,
Kate still cries over his body, having spent a
significant amount of time with him as her son.
At that moment, the couple clings to
each other after a traumatizing day.
A month later, they move into a
smaller place and settle in peace.
But not for long—Kate looks in horror at
her pregnancy test that comes out positive,
unsure if the baby belongs to Matt or
Shane. As if things are not bad enough,
a lamp flickers, and she gets under the impression
that all along, they might still be in The Room.
In the story, Matt and Kate have completely been
blinded by the riches that The Room has to offer.
With the unexplained magic, they become
more careless with their desires,
even wishing for a child after a series
of miscarriages. The flickering light at
their new apartment at the end gives a slim
possibility of them still being in The Room,
or a glitch in the building may also cause it.
Among the most shocking revelations is Kate's
pregnancy which could be Matt's or Shane's child.
The night before the big incident, Kate and Matt
made love, but the grown Shane also assaulted her
in the cloned home. The mystery of the film does
not only revolve around the wish-granting Room
but, finally, the father of Kate's unborn child.